THE HAPPY PRINCE 	快乐王子
by Oscar Wilde, 1888 	〔英〕奥斯卡·王尔德著;巴金译, 1957/1997
High above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy Prince. He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his sword-hilt. 	快乐王子的像[立]在一根高圆柱上面，高高地耸立在城市的上空。他满身贴着薄薄的纯金叶子，一对晶莹的蓝宝石做成他的眼睛，一颗大的红宝石嵌在他的剑柄上，灿烂地发着红光。
He was very much admired indeed. "He is as beautiful as a weathercock," remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes; "only not quite so useful," he added, fearing lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not. 	他的确得到一般人的称赞。一个市参议员为了表示自己有艺术的欣赏力，说：“他象风信标那样漂亮，”不过他又害怕别人会把他看做一个不务实际的人（其实他并不是不务实际的），便加上一句：“只是他不及风信标那样有用（译注:Weathercock,或译定风针”。）
"Why can't you be like the Happy Prince?" asked a sensible mother of her little boy who was crying for the moon. "The Happy Prince never dreams of crying for anything." 	“为什么你不能象快乐王子那样呢？”一位聪明的母亲对她那个哭着要月亮的孩子说，“快乐王子连做梦也没想到会哭着要东西。”
"I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy," muttered a disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue. 	“我真高兴世界上毕竟还有一个人是很快乐的。”一个失意的人望着这座非常出色的像喃喃地说。
"He looks just like an angel," said the Charity Children as they came out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white pinafores. 	“他很像一个天使，”孤儿院的孩子们说，他们正从大教堂出来，披着光亮夺目的猩红色斗篷，束着洁白的遮胸。
"How do you know?" said the Mathematical Master, "you have never seen one." 	“你们怎么知道？”数学先生说，“你们从没有见过一位天使。”
"Ah! but we have, in our dreams," answered the children; and the Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not approve of children dreaming. 	“啊！可是我们在梦里见过的。”孩子们答道。数学先生皱起眉头，板着面孔，因为他不赞成小孩子做梦。
One night there flew over the city a little Swallow. His friends had gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was in love with the most beautiful Reed. He had met her early in the spring as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her. 	某一个夜晚一只小燕子飞过城市的上空。他的朋友们六个星期以前就到埃及去了，但是他还留在后面，因为他恋着那根最美丽的芦苇。他还是在早春遇见她的，那时他正沿着河顺流飞去，追一只黄色飞蛾，她的细腰很引起他的注意，他便站住同她谈起话来。