1	ZZZZZ.THE HAPPY PRINCEZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	快乐王子	快乐王子
2	ZZZZZ.by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	〔英〕奥斯卡·王尔德著;巴金译, 1957/1997	快乐王子
3	ZZZZZ.High above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy Prince.|He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his sword-hilt.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	快乐王子的像[立]在一根高圆柱上面，高高地耸立在城市的上空。|他满身贴着薄薄的纯金叶子，一对晶莹的蓝宝石做成他的眼睛，一颗大的红宝石嵌在他的剑柄上，灿烂地发着红光。	快乐王子
4	ZZZZZ.He was very much admired indeed.|"He is as beautiful as a weathercock," remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes; "only not quite so useful," he added, fearing lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	他的确得到一般人的称赞。|一个市参议员为了表示自己有艺术的欣赏力，说：“他象风信标那样漂亮，”不过他又害怕别人会把他看做一个不务实际的人（其实他并不是不务实际的），便加上一句：“只是他不及风信标那样有用（译注:Weathercock,或译定风针”。）	快乐王子
5	ZZZZZ."Why can't you be like the Happy Prince?" asked a sensible mother of her little boy who was crying for the moon.|"The Happy Prince never dreams of crying for anything."ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	“为什么你不能象快乐王子那样呢？”一位聪明的母亲对她那个哭着要月亮的孩子说，|“快乐王子连做梦也没想到会哭着要东西。”	快乐王子
6	ZZZZZ."I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy," muttered a disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	“我真高兴世界上毕竟还有一个人是很快乐的。”一个失意的人望着这座非常出色的像喃喃地说。	快乐王子
7	ZZZZZ."He looks just like an angel," said the Charity Children as they came out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white pinafores.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	“他很像一个天使，”孤儿院的孩子们说，他们正从大教堂出来，披着光亮夺目的猩红色斗篷，束着洁白的遮胸。	快乐王子
8	ZZZZZ."How do you know?" said the Mathematical Master, "you have never seen one."ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	“你们怎么知道？”数学先生说，“你们从没有见过一位天使。”	快乐王子
9	ZZZZZ."Ah! but we have, in our dreams," answered the children; and the Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not approve of children dreaming.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	“啊！可是我们在梦里见过的。”孩子们答道。数学先生皱起眉头，板着面孔，因为他不赞成小孩子做梦。	快乐王子
10	ZZZZZ.One night there flew over the city a little Swallow.|His friends had gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was in love with the most beautiful Reed.|He had met her early in the spring as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince	某一个夜晚一只小燕子飞过城市的上空。|他的朋友们六个星期以前就到埃及去了，但是他还留在后面，因为他恋着那根最美丽的芦苇。|他还是在早春遇见她的，那时他正沿着河顺流飞去，追一只黄色飞蛾，她的细腰很引起他的注意，他便站住同她谈起话来。	快乐王子
87	ZZZZZ.THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE ROSEZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	夜莺与蔷薇	夜莺与蔷薇
88	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	〔英〕奥斯卡·王尔德著;巴金译, 1957/1997	夜莺与蔷薇
89	ZZZZZ."She said that she would dance with me if I brought her red roses," cried the young Student; "but in all my garden there is no red rose."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“她说过只要我送给她一朵红蔷薇，她就会同我跳舞，”年轻的学生大声说；“可是我的花园里，连一朵红蔷薇也没有。”	夜莺与蔷薇
90	ZZZZZ.From her nest in the holm-oak tree the Nightingale heard him, and she looked out through the leaves, and wondered.ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	夜莺在她的常青橡树上的巢里听见了他的话，她从绿叶丛中向外张望，非常惊讶。	夜莺与蔷薇
91	ZZZZZ."No red rose in all my garden!" he cried, and his beautiful eyes filled with tears.|"Ah, on what little things does happiness depend!|I have read all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets of philosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life made wretched."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“找遍我整个花园都找不到一朵红蔷薇，”他带哭说，他美丽的眼睛里充满了泪水。|“唉，想不到幸福就系在这么细小的事情上面!|我读过了那些聪明人写的东西，一切学问的秘密我都知道了，可是因为少了一朵红蔷薇，我的生活就变成很不幸的了。”	夜莺与蔷薇
92	ZZZZZ."Here at last is a true lover," said the Nightingale.|"Night after night have I sung of him, though I knew him not: night after night have I told his story to the stars, and now I see him.|His hair is dark as the hyacinth-blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire; but passion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her seal upon his brow."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“现在到底找到一个忠实的情人了，”夜莺自语道。|“我虽然不认识他，可是我每夜都在歌颂他。我一夜又一夜地把他的故事讲给星星听，现在我亲眼看见他了。|他的头发黑得像盛开的风信子，他的嘴唇就像他想望的蔷薇那样红。可是热情使他的脸变得像一块失色的象牙，忧愁已经印上了他的眉梢。”	夜莺与蔷薇
93	ZZZZZ."The Prince gives a ball to-morrow night," murmured the young Student, "and my love will be of the company.|If I bring her a red rose she will dance with me till dawn.|If I bring her a red rose, I shall hold her in my arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand will be clasped in mine.|But there is no red rose in my garden, so I shall sit lonely, and she will pass me by.|She will have no heed of me, and my heart will break."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“王子明晚要开跳舞会，”年轻的学生喃喃说，“我心爱的人要去赴会。|要是我带一朵红蔷薇去送给她，她会同我跳舞到天亮。|要是我送她一朵红蔷薇，我便可以搂着她，让她的头靠在我肩上，她的手捏在我手里。|可是我的园子里并没有红蔷薇，我不得不寂寞地枯坐在那儿，她会走过我面前不理我。|她不理睬我，我的心就要碎了。”	夜莺与蔷薇
94	ZZZZZ."Here indeed is the true lover," said the Nightingale.|"What I sing of, he suffers: what is joy to me, to him is pain.|Surely Love is a wonderful thing.|It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.|Pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in the market-place.|It may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it be weighed out in the balance for gold."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“这的确是一个忠实的情人，”夜莺说。|“我所歌唱的，正是使他受苦的东西。在我是快乐的东西，在他却成了痛苦。|爱情真是一件了不起的东西。|它比绿宝石更宝贵，比猫眼石更值价。|用珠宝也买不到它。它不是陈列在市场上的，|它不是可以从商人那儿买到的，也不能称轻重拿来换钱。”	夜莺与蔷薇
95	ZZZZZ."The musicians will sit in their gallery," said the young Student, "and play upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the sound of the harp and the violin.|She will dance so lightly that her feet will not touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng round her.|But with me she will not dance, for I have no red rose to give her;" and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face in his hands, and wept.ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“乐师们会坐在他们的廊厢里，”年轻的学生说，“弹奏他们的弦乐器，我心爱的人会跟着竖琴和小提琴的声音跳舞。|她会跳得那么轻快，好像她的脚就没有挨着地板似的，那些穿漂亮衣服的朝臣会团团地围住她。|可是她不会同我跳舞，因为我没有红蔷薇带给她，”于是他扑倒在草地上，双手蒙住脸哭起来。	夜莺与蔷薇
96	ZZZZZ."Why is he weeping?" asked a little Green Lizard, as he ran past him with his tail in the air.ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose	“他为什么哭？”一条小小的绿蜥蜴竖起尾巴跑过学生面前，这样问道。	夜莺与蔷薇
144	ZZZZZ.THE SELFISH GIANTZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	自私的巨人	自私的巨人
145	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	选自《巴金译文全集(第六卷)》〔英〕奥斯卡·王尔德著;巴金译, 1957/1997年	自私的巨人
146	ZZZZZ.Every afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go and play in the Giant's garden.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	每天下午，孩子们放学以后，总喜欢到巨人的花园里去玩。	自私的巨人
147	ZZZZZ.It was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass.|Here and there over the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit.|The birds sat on the trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in order to listen to them.|"How happy we are here!" they cried to each other.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	这是一个可爱的大花园，园里长满了柔嫩的青草。|草丛中到处露出星星似的美丽花朵；还有十二棵桃树，在春天开出淡红色和珍珠色的鲜花，在秋天结着丰富的果子。|小鸟们坐在树枝上唱出悦耳的歌声，它们唱得那么动听，孩子们都停止了游戏来听它们。|“我们在这儿多快乐！”孩子们互相欢叫。	自私的巨人
148	ZZZZZ.One day the Giant came back.|He had been to visit his friend the Cornish ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years.|After the seven years were over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation was limited, and he determined to return to his own castle.|When he arrived he saw the children playing in the garden.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	有一天巨人回来了。|他原先离家去看他的朋友，就是那个康华尔地方的吃人鬼，在那里一住便是七年。|七年过完了，他已经把他要说的话说尽了（因为他谈话的才能是有限的），他便决定回他自己的府邸去。|他到了家，看见小孩们正在花园里玩。	自私的巨人
149	ZZZZZ."What are you doing here?" he cried in a very gruff voice, and the children ran away.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	“你们在这儿做什么？”他粗暴地叫道，小孩们都跑开了。	自私的巨人
150	ZZZZZ."My own garden is my own garden," said the Giant; "any one can understand that, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself."|So he built a high wall all round it, and put up a notice-board.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	“我自己的花园就是我自己的花园，”巨人说，“这是随便什么人都懂得的，除了我自己以外，我不准任何人在里面玩。”|所以他就在花园的四周筑了一道高墙，挂起一块布告牌来：	自私的巨人
151	ZZZZZ.TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTEDZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	不准擅入 违者重惩	自私的巨人
152	ZZZZZ.He was a very selfish Giant.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	他是一个非常自私的巨人。	自私的巨人
153	ZZZZZ.The poor children had now nowhere to play.|They tried to play on the road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did not like it.|They used to wander round the high wall when their lessons were over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside.|"How happy we were there!" they said to each other.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant	那些可怜的小孩们现在没有玩的地方了。|他们只好勉强在街上玩，可是街道灰尘多，到处都是坚硬的石子，他们不喜欢这个地方。|他们放学以后常常在高墙外面转来转去，并且谈论墙内的美丽的花园。|“我们从前在那儿多么快活啊”，他们都这样说。	自私的巨人
177	ZZZZZ.THE DEVOTED FRIENDZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	忠实的朋友	忠实的朋友
178	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	选自《巴金译文全集(第六卷)》〔英〕奥斯卡·王尔德著;巴金译, 1957/1997	忠实的朋友
179	ZZZZZ.One morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole.|He had bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a long bit of black india-rubber.|The little ducks were swimming about in the pond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, who was pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand on their heads in the water.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	有天早晨一只老河鼠从他的洞里伸出头来。|他有明亮的小眼睛和坚硬的灰色颊须，他的尾巴好象是一条长长的黑橡皮。|小鸭们在池塘里游来游去，看起来真像一群黄色的金丝雀，他们的母亲全身纯白，配上一对真正的红腿，她正在教他们怎样在水中倒立。	忠实的朋友
180	ZZZZZ."You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your heads," she kept saying to them; and every now and then she showed them how it was done.|But the little ducks paid no attention to her.|They were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in society at all.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“你们要是不会倒立，就永不会有跟上等人来往的机会，”她不断地对他们说，并且她时常做给他们看，怎样才可以倒立起来。|可是小鸭们并不注意她。|他们太年轻了，完全不知道跟上等人来往的好处。	忠实的朋友
181	ZZZZZ."What disobedient children!" cried the old Water-rat; "they really deserve to be drowned."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“多么不听话的孩子！”老河鼠嚷道；“他们实在应当淹死。”	忠实的朋友
182	ZZZZZ."Nothing of the kind," answered the Duck, "every one must make a beginning, and parents cannot be too patient."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“不是的，”母鸭答道，“开头不容易，对谁都是一样，做父母的要有耐心才好。”	忠实的朋友
183	ZZZZZ."Ah!|I know nothing about the feelings of parents," said the Water-rat; "I am not a family man.|In fact, I have never been married, and I never intend to be.|Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much higher.|Indeed, I know of nothing in the world that is either nobler or rarer than a devoted friendship."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“啊！|我一点也不懂做父母的情感，”河鼠说。“我不是个有家室的人。|其实，我从没有结过婚，也决不想结婚。|爱情就它本身来说也很不错，可是友谊却比它高尚得多。|老实说，我不知道在世界上还有什么比忠实的友谊更高贵、更难得的东西。”	忠实的朋友
184	ZZZZZ."And what, pray, is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend?" asked a green Linnet, who was sitting in a willow-tree hard by, and had overheard the conversation.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“那么请问，你以为一个忠实的朋友究竟有些什么样的义务？”一只绿色梅花雀坐在近旁一棵柳树上面，听见他们的谈话便插嘴问道。	忠实的朋友
185	ZZZZZ."Yes, that is just what I want to know," said the Duck; and she swam away to the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give her children a good example.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“对啊，我也就是想知道这一点，”母鸭说，她便游到池子的那一头去，倒立起来，给她的孩子们做一个好榜样。	忠实的朋友
186	ZZZZZ."What a silly question!" cried the Water-rat.|"I should expect my devoted friend to be devoted to me, of course."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend	“你问得多傻！”河鼠大声说。|“自然啊，我希望我的忠实的朋友对我忠实。”	忠实的朋友
292	ZZZZZ.THE REMARKABLE ROCKETZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	了不起的火箭	了不起的火箭
293	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde,1888ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	选自《巴金译文全集(第六卷)》〔英〕奥斯卡·王尔德著;巴金译, 1997	了不起的火箭
294	ZZZZZ.The King's son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings.|He had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived.|She was a Russian Princess, and had driven all the way from Finland in a sledge drawn by six reindeer.|The sledge was shaped like a great golden swan, and between the swan's wings lay the little Princess herself.|Her long ermine cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tiny cap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which she had always lived.|So pale was she that as she drove through the streets all the people wondered.|"She is like a white rose!"|they cried, and they threw down flowers on her from the balconies.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	国王的儿子要结婚了，国内准备着普遍的庆祝，|王子等他的新娘整整等了一年，后来她毕竟来了。|她是一位俄国公主，坐着六匹驯鹿拉的雪车从芬兰一路赶来的。|雪车的形状很像一只金色大天鹅，小公主就坐在天鹅的两只翅膀中间。|她那件银鼠皮的长外套一直盖到她的脚，她头上戴了一顶银线小帽，她的脸色苍白得就像她平时住的雪宫的颜色。|她是那么苍白，所以她的雪车经过街上的时候，百姓们都感到惊奇。|“她像一朵白蔷薇！”|他们嚷道，他们从露台上朝着她丢下花来。	了不起的火箭
295	ZZZZZ.At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her.|He had dreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold.|When he saw her he sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	王子在宫城门口等着迎接她。|他有一对爱梦想的青紫色眼睛，和纯金一般的头发。|他看见她来，便跪下一只腿，吻她的手。	了不起的火箭
296	ZZZZZ."Your picture was beautiful," he murmured, "but you are more beautiful than your picture;"|and the little Princess blushed.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	“你的照相很美，”他喃喃地说，“可是你本人比照相还要美；”|小公主脸红起来。	了不起的火箭
297	ZZZZZ."She was like a white rose before," said a young page to his neighbour, "but she is like a red rose now;"|and the whole Court was delighted.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	“她先前像一朵白蔷薇，可是现在她像一朵红蔷薇了，”一个年轻的侍从对他的朋友说，|整个宫里的人听见了都很高兴。	了不起的火箭
298	ZZZZZ.For the next three days everybody went about saying, "White rose, Red rose, Red rose, White rose;" |and the King gave orders that the Page's salary was to be doubled.|As he received no salary at all this was not of much use to him, but it was considered a great honour, and was duly published in the Court Gazette.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	这以后的三天里面人人都说着：“白蔷薇，红蔷薇，红蔷薇，白蔷薇；”|国王便下令把那侍从的薪金增加一倍。|其实他根本就没有薪金，加薪的命令对他并没有什么用处，不过这是一种大的荣誉，并且照例在《宫报》上公布了。	了不起的火箭
299	ZZZZZ.When the three days were over the marriage was celebrated.|It was a magnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls.|Then there was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours.|The Prince and Princess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clear crystal.|Only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lips touched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	过了这三天，婚礼便举行了。|这是一个隆重的仪式，一对新人在一幅绣着小珍珠的紫天鹅绒华盖下面手拉手地走着。|随后又举行盛大的宴会，一共继续了五个钟头。|王子同公主坐在大殿的首位，用一个透明的水晶杯子喝酒。|据说只有真诚的爱人才能够用这个杯子喝酒，要是虚假的爱情的嘴唇一挨到杯子，杯子马上就会变成灰暗无光而混浊了。	了不起的火箭
300	ZZZZZ."It is quite clear that they love each other," said the little Page, "as clear as crystal!"|and the King doubled his salary a second time.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	“他们分明互相爱着，就跟水晶一样地洁白！”那个小侍从又说，|国王第二次下令给他加薪。	了不起的火箭
301	ZZZZZ."What an honour!" cried all the courtiers.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket	“多大的光荣啊，”朝臣们全这样地嚷着。	了不起的火箭