1	ZZZZZ.THE HAPPY PRINCEZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
2	ZZZZZ.by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
3	ZZZZZ.High above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy Prince.|He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his sword-hilt.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
4	ZZZZZ.He was very much admired indeed.|"He is as beautiful as a weathercock," remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes; "only not quite so useful," he added, fearing lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
5	ZZZZZ."Why can't you be like the Happy Prince?" asked a sensible mother of her little boy who was crying for the moon.|"The Happy Prince never dreams of crying for anything."ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
6	ZZZZZ."I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy," muttered a disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
7	ZZZZZ."He looks just like an angel," said the Charity Children as they came out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white pinafores.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
8	ZZZZZ."How do you know?" said the Mathematical Master, "you have never seen one."ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
9	ZZZZZ."Ah! but we have, in our dreams," answered the children; and the Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not approve of children dreaming.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
10	ZZZZZ.One night there flew over the city a little Swallow.|His friends had gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was in love with the most beautiful Reed.|He had met her early in the spring as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her.ZZZZZ.	The Happy Prince
87	ZZZZZ.THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE ROSEZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
88	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
89	ZZZZZ."She said that she would dance with me if I brought her red roses," cried the young Student; "but in all my garden there is no red rose."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
90	ZZZZZ.From her nest in the holm-oak tree the Nightingale heard him, and she looked out through the leaves, and wondered.ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
91	ZZZZZ."No red rose in all my garden!" he cried, and his beautiful eyes filled with tears.|"Ah, on what little things does happiness depend!|I have read all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets of philosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life made wretched."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
92	ZZZZZ."Here at last is a true lover," said the Nightingale.|"Night after night have I sung of him, though I knew him not: night after night have I told his story to the stars, and now I see him.|His hair is dark as the hyacinth-blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire; but passion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her seal upon his brow."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
93	ZZZZZ."The Prince gives a ball to-morrow night," murmured the young Student, "and my love will be of the company.|If I bring her a red rose she will dance with me till dawn.|If I bring her a red rose, I shall hold her in my arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand will be clasped in mine.|But there is no red rose in my garden, so I shall sit lonely, and she will pass me by.|She will have no heed of me, and my heart will break."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
94	ZZZZZ."Here indeed is the true lover," said the Nightingale.|"What I sing of, he suffers: what is joy to me, to him is pain.|Surely Love is a wonderful thing.|It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.|Pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in the market-place.|It may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it be weighed out in the balance for gold."ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
95	ZZZZZ."The musicians will sit in their gallery," said the young Student, "and play upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the sound of the harp and the violin.|She will dance so lightly that her feet will not touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng round her.|But with me she will not dance, for I have no red rose to give her;" and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face in his hands, and wept.ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
96	ZZZZZ."Why is he weeping?" asked a little Green Lizard, as he ran past him with his tail in the air.ZZZZZ.	The Nightingale and the Rose
144	ZZZZZ.THE SELFISH GIANTZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
145	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
146	ZZZZZ.Every afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go and play in the Giant's garden.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
147	ZZZZZ.It was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass.|Here and there over the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit.|The birds sat on the trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in order to listen to them.|"How happy we are here!" they cried to each other.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
148	ZZZZZ.One day the Giant came back.|He had been to visit his friend the Cornish ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years.|After the seven years were over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation was limited, and he determined to return to his own castle.|When he arrived he saw the children playing in the garden.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
149	ZZZZZ."What are you doing here?" he cried in a very gruff voice, and the children ran away.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
150	ZZZZZ."My own garden is my own garden," said the Giant; "any one can understand that, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself."|So he built a high wall all round it, and put up a notice-board.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
151	ZZZZZ.TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTEDZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
152	ZZZZZ.He was a very selfish Giant.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
153	ZZZZZ.The poor children had now nowhere to play.|They tried to play on the road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did not like it.|They used to wander round the high wall when their lessons were over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside.|"How happy we were there!" they said to each other.ZZZZZ.	The Selfish Giant
177	ZZZZZ.THE DEVOTED FRIENDZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
178	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde, 1888ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
179	ZZZZZ.One morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole.|He had bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a long bit of black india-rubber.|The little ducks were swimming about in the pond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, who was pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand on their heads in the water.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
180	ZZZZZ."You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your heads," she kept saying to them; and every now and then she showed them how it was done.|But the little ducks paid no attention to her.|They were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in society at all.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
181	ZZZZZ."What disobedient children!" cried the old Water-rat; "they really deserve to be drowned."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
182	ZZZZZ."Nothing of the kind," answered the Duck, "every one must make a beginning, and parents cannot be too patient."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
183	ZZZZZ."Ah!|I know nothing about the feelings of parents," said the Water-rat; "I am not a family man.|In fact, I have never been married, and I never intend to be.|Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much higher.|Indeed, I know of nothing in the world that is either nobler or rarer than a devoted friendship."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
184	ZZZZZ."And what, pray, is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend?" asked a green Linnet, who was sitting in a willow-tree hard by, and had overheard the conversation.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
185	ZZZZZ."Yes, that is just what I want to know," said the Duck; and she swam away to the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give her children a good example.ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
186	ZZZZZ."What a silly question!" cried the Water-rat.|"I should expect my devoted friend to be devoted to me, of course."ZZZZZ.	The Devoted Friend
292	ZZZZZ.THE REMARKABLE ROCKETZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
293	ZZZZZ.from The Happy Prince and Other Tales by Oscar Wilde,1888ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
294	ZZZZZ.The King's son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings.|He had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived.|She was a Russian Princess, and had driven all the way from Finland in a sledge drawn by six reindeer.|The sledge was shaped like a great golden swan, and between the swan's wings lay the little Princess herself.|Her long ermine cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tiny cap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which she had always lived.|So pale was she that as she drove through the streets all the people wondered.|"She is like a white rose!"|they cried, and they threw down flowers on her from the balconies.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
295	ZZZZZ.At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her.|He had dreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold.|When he saw her he sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
296	ZZZZZ."Your picture was beautiful," he murmured, "but you are more beautiful than your picture;"|and the little Princess blushed.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
297	ZZZZZ."She was like a white rose before," said a young page to his neighbour, "but she is like a red rose now;"|and the whole Court was delighted.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
298	ZZZZZ.For the next three days everybody went about saying, "White rose, Red rose, Red rose, White rose;" |and the King gave orders that the Page's salary was to be doubled.|As he received no salary at all this was not of much use to him, but it was considered a great honour, and was duly published in the Court Gazette.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
299	ZZZZZ.When the three days were over the marriage was celebrated.|It was a magnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls.|Then there was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours.|The Prince and Princess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clear crystal.|Only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lips touched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
300	ZZZZZ."It is quite clear that they love each other," said the little Page, "as clear as crystal!"|and the King doubled his salary a second time.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket
301	ZZZZZ."What an honour!" cried all the courtiers.ZZZZZ.	The Remarkable Rocket